# How to Prepare for Ignite

The only thing you have to do before the day you begin the retreat is to meet at least once with your group. However, there are a few steps you can take to ease your transition into the Ignite experience.

1. **Read the Kindling** to familiarize yourself with the Foundations. If you don’t know much about Ignatian Spirituality, which underlies this retreat, you can take a look at the [Introduction to Ignatian Spirituality](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1RNw5pH7kPcsupHt-JKqyAh_yrDTp2QIeGBjZXZ5ovHk) and [Introduction to the Spiritual Exercises](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1EEH8FEEZUgt-e2-WMVX305QuGEcH0Xtd8fJ41Hbnd3k).
2. **Pay Attention** to patterns of freedom and attachment in your life. Notice the things that are taking up more time than you want, and the things you wish you had more time to do. Be aware of what makes you happy and fulfilled, and what leaves you empty and isolated. This will help you identify where you need to focus more of your attention while fasting and praying.
3. **Start a Habit** of daily prayer. Ignite is only possible with regular daily prayer. Contemplation, the kind of prayer that much of this retreat is centered on, can be difficult, but it will come more easily if you are already comfortable taking just a few moments each day to be with God. One easy way to start is to take just one minute each morning to ask God for whatever spiritual or material needs you anticipate that day. Then in the evening notice and thank God for at least one gift you received that day. If you find it hard to remember, you can set a reminder or alarm on your phone at a consistent time at which you can pray. For more ways to pray, take a look at the Guide to Prayer.
4. **Make Space** in your schedule for daily prayer and a weekly meeting. Don’t take on any new obligations that will make it unreasonably difficult to continue Ignite.
